# What is a laser?
What are the components of a laser?
1. Gain medium
	- Stimulated emission
2. Cavity
	- The two reflective surfaces on the sides of a gain medium. Essentially reflect light through the gain medium numerous times
3. Pump Mechanism
	- Some method of putting energy into the laser
4. Output coupler
	- The output of the laser

For our example laser, lets define the number of photons inside the cavity to be $q$, and $N_{2}$ to be the number of atoms in the excited state.
- The gain is generated by photons released by de-excitation inside the gain medium
- For now, we will ignore the possibility of absorption by the gain medium
# Simple model
Say there is now stimulated emission occurring within our laser. We expect the equations governing this system to look something like,
$$
\frac{dq}{dt} = aN_{2}q - bq
$$
$$
\frac{dN_{2}}{dt} = -aN_{2}q + p - fN_{2}
$$
The first $N_{2}q$ terms arise from the stimulated emission. $bq$ represents loss, $p$ models the pumping mechanism, and $fN_{2}$ arises from spontaneous emission.

Now, because this is a coupled non-linear set of differential equations, it is very challenging to solve this system. However, we can instead try to find the steady-states when $dq /dt =0$ or $dN_{2} /dt=0$.
$$
\frac{dq}{dt}=0 \implies aN_{2}q - bq=0 \implies \bar{N}_{2} = \frac{b}{a}
$$
We call $\bar{N}_{2} \equiv N_{t}$ the threshold excited number. It allows us to rewrite the original equation as,
$$
\frac{dq}{dt} = aq (N_{2} - N_{t})
$$
Now lets substitute $N_{t}$ into $dN_{2} /dt$. This ultimately simplifies into,
$$
-bq + p  - \frac{fb}{a} =0 \implies \bar{q} = \frac{p}{b} - \frac{f}{a}
$$
Which tells us that, if we want $q$ to be positive, we need the pump to input some amount of energy greater than $f$.

Of course we require that $q\geq 0$ and $N_{2}\geq 0$. So, when this equation evaluates to something less than zero, it loses meaning. In these cases, $q=0$.