# Question 1
Assuming perfectly elastic collision, the component of the particle travelling along $\vec{n}$ will be reversed after the collision.
$$
\vec{v}'_{\vec{n}} =- \vec{v}_{\vec{n}}
$$
# Question 2
According to conservation of momentum,
$$
m_{1}v_{1} + m_{2}v_{2} = m_{1}v_{1}' + m_{2}v_{2}'
$$
Assuming a perfectly elastic collision:
$$
v_{1} + v_{1}' = v_{2}+v_{2}'
$$
Confining this problem along the axis parallel to $\vec{n}$, I obtain the system of equations,
$$
\begin{align}
m_{1, \vec{n}}v_{1, \vec{n}} + m_{2, \vec{n}}v_{2, \vec{n}} &= m_{1, \vec{n}}v_{1, \vec{n}}' + m_{2, \vec{n}}v_{2, \vec{n}}' \\
v_{1, \vec{n}} + v_{1, \vec{n}}' &= v_{2, \vec{n}}+v_{2, \vec{n}}'
\end{align}
$$
For the remainder of this problem, because all the momentum transfer occurs along the $\vec{n}$ direction, I will suppress the dependence on $\vec{n}$. Re-arranging the second equation:
$$
v_{1}' = v_{2}+v_{2}' - v_{1}
$$
Substitute this relation back into the first:
$$
m_{1}v_{1} + m_{2}v_{2} = m_{1}(v_{2}+v_{2}' - v_{1}) + m_{2}v_{2}'
$$
Isolate for $v_{2}'$ to find:
$$
v_{2}' = \frac{m_{2}v_{2} - m_{1}(v_{2}-2v_{1})}{m_{1}+m_{2}} = v_{2} - \frac{2m_{1}}{m_{1}+m_{2}} (v_{2}-v_{1})
$$
Now solve for $v_{1}'$ using this new expression for $v_{2}'$:
$$
v_{1}' = v_{2}+\left( v_{2} - \frac{2m_{1}}{m_{1}+m_{2}} (v_{2}-v_{1}) \right)  - v_{1} = v_{1} - \frac{2m_{2}}{m_{1}+m_{2}} (v_{1}-v_{2})
$$
In summary:
$$
v_{1, \vec{n}}' = v_{1, \vec{n}} - \frac{2m_{2, \vec{n}}}{m_{1, \vec{n}}+m_{2, \vec{n}}} (v_{1, \vec{n}}-v_{2, \vec{n}}) \qquad v_{2, \vec{n}}' = v_{2, \vec{n}} - \frac{2m_{1, \vec{n}}}{m_{1, \vec{n}}+m_{2, \vec{n}}} (v_{2, \vec{n}}-v_{1, \vec{n}})
$$
Where I have once again re-introduced the dependence on $\vec{n}$ in the final expressions.
# Question 3
Removing the $\vec{n}$ dependence from the result in Q1,
$$
\vec{v}' = \vec{v}
$$
Removing the $\vec{n}$ dependence from the result in Q2, and taking $1\to i$ and $2\to j$ I have,
$$
v_{i}' = v_{i} - \frac{2m_{j}}{m_{i}+m_{j}} (v_{i}-v_{j}) \qquad v_{j}' = v_{j} - \frac{2m_{i}}{m_{i}+m_{j}} (v_{j}-v_{i})
$$
As needed.
# Question 4
Based on lines 142 and 150, the velocities are updated in the functions `collide_pair` and `reflect_wall`
# Question 5
`t_last` is responsible for keeping track of the last time a particle collided with something, either another particle, or a wall.

The use of `t_last` enables the use of a priority queue, where instead of simulating the dynamics of the full system at all times, the simulation updates only when it needs to: when a collision event happens.
# Question 6
The rightmost particle has collided with the right wall. `push_pair` is responsible for computing the time at which this particle will collide with another particle, and then adding it to the priority queue.
# Question 7
The plots differ in the two cases because one is seeded and one is unseeded. The randomized distribution generated by a computer is determined by a seed, in this case `252`. This means that, in the first case, the velocity distribution will always be the same, whereas in the second case they will be different.
- I have the images attached in the `temp_images` folder
- Only one image for the `252` seed, so just use the same image twice
# Question 8
- Successfully fit a Gaussian distribution to the normalized histogram of values, as required
- Submit the code included in `part2q8.py`
	- I load the samples from files because I saved them there. Probably worth it to mention in my answers
- Specifically in the answer to this question, just submit lines 38-40

By eyeball, it looks like both fits are quite accurate. The Gaussian matches very close, and the distribution is centred around 0.

Supporting this claim is the fact that $\mu$ is very small for samples A and B. Both are within the order of magnitude of $10^{-3}$, however their uncertainties determined by the covariance matrix is also within the same order of magnitude.
- Maybe it's because there's a lot of points clustered around the centre? Widening the peak? Doesn't look like this is the case though
- Increasing the number of bins doesn't appear to remedy this issue

The variance $\sigma$, however, has an incredibly small uncertainty. The uncertainty is several orders of magnitude smaller than the actual value.

The $\chi^{2}$ values are incredibly small, indicating a heavily over-fit function. Despite this, there are still 28 degrees of freedom. This has likely arisen because the Gaussian curve flawlessly models the equilibrium state all particles eventually reach in a 1-D particle system.

- I didn't plot the residuals. This is a 2 mark question, surely they don't give a shit?
# Question 9
Ideal gas law for reference:
$$
PV=nRT
$$
Where $P$ is pressure, $V$ is volume, $n$ is the number of moles, $R$ is the ideal gas constant, and $T$ is temperature.

The variance appears to decrease as the mass of the particles increases
- Wild differences between the two particles does not appear to have significant effects on the variance
- In most samples, species B has double the mass of A, but in one species B has x10 the mass of A, but similar results were recorded 

The variance appears to increase as the energy in the system increases

The variance appears to decrease as the number of particles increases
# Question 10
- Computed the impulse and momentum according to the $2mv$ rule we learned in class
- Determined the pressure on the wall assuming the area of the wall was 1

As the energy increases, the pressure inside increases

As the density increases (so the box length decreases) the pressure inside increases

As the number of particles increases, the pressure inside decreases
- This doesn't make sense, as is the opposite of what should happen
- Claude is telling me this makes sense (unreliable source, but I can't find anything else on the topic)

An approximation of the pressure,
$$
P \propto \frac{E}{NL} \implies  PL=c_{1} \frac{E}{N}
$$
- The second version is made to look more similar to the ideal gas law
# Rough work
$$
P = \frac{J}{A(\Delta t)}
$$
